when welcome back from their hardware
news recap for the week for this one we
have a GN specific leak where we have an
and the internal road map showing ddr5
on target for sometime in the future
that will talk about risin 3 1200 and
1300 AF CPUs servicing and following the
popular risin 5 1600 AF which was not as
on one part if you don't remember that
Unigine community - sdk information TS
mcs earnings and node updates
information on risin 3 3,100 3,100 x and
b 550 finally at an official capacity
and CGA and western digital
victim-blaming for the SMR concerns
before that this video is brought to you
by the new be quiet straight power 11
platinum power supply series available
from 550 watts to 1200 watts the new
straight power 11 is Platinum certified
operating more efficiently than before
reducing heat and lowering noise levels
as a result the be quiet Street power 11
platinum is up to 94.1% efficient and
meets the new low power standards of
just 0.16 watts when in standby learn
more about this high end noise focused
power supply at the link in the
description below
quick note 2 as we start this we have a
test for so the Salomon C n PS 20 acts a
lot of you have requested from us we
bought it and we review up or coming up
soon so check back for that or check the
channel Andy has ddr5 on the roadmap to
no one's surprise but we have a bit of a
date on it we'll keep this one short
gamers Nexus has received an and the
internal roadmap from someone with
access to it with whom we've worked in
the past and have verified internal
roadmaps are constantly subject to
change they're not pushed to the public
for a lot of reasons but one of them is
competitive obviously but the other one
is that everything's subject to change
so these aren't public promises by AMD
it's something as a useful measure of
when to look out for ddr5 but not
necessarily something to bet on and
that's especially true given the current
economic and manufacturing uncertainty
in the world so we wanted to set the
stage with a disclaimer there because
who knows what this stuff will change
we're not saying it's going to be fact
that said we've got a pretty good idea
so keeping in mind that you shouldn't
overly sensationalize this news since it
is just an internal roadmap the roadmap
indicates that 2022 is the year Andy is
intending to put ddr5 on its CPUs that
will be with Zen 4 and its desktop
platform so that would be the premiere
or premium desktop platform as AMD calls
it and also some of the lower down
products the 2022 platform will
unsurprisingly retain PCIe gen for it
doesn't look like it will be moving to 5
by then and it should be a Zen for
product it's also intended to feature
native USB for support and then the AP
is for that year are also supposed to
have ddr5 but will be apparently anyways
n3 + but who knows we'll see if that
remains accurate the mobile roadmap has
ddr5 LP 5 on board for 2022 and that's
also in the premium and in the gaming
lines for notebooks we have more
information than that but since we know
how wildly internal roadmaps can change
this far in the future of launch we're
just going to exercise some
responsibility here and withhold the
rest until we're a bit closer to them
next news item is a Rison 3 and 1300 AF
story the Rison 3 1300 x AF is already
available but mostly in Europe so it's
available on some retailers in the UK
and in Germany the 1200 AF was just
spotted by a computer base in Germany on
their retailers as well and this is
following up the previous r5 1600 AF AF
saw the official naming but the product
SKU is AE box for the original just some
letters thrown in there for tracking
asked you as always and the updated
version was AF box so the community took
to calling it AF and we were happy to
stick with that trend when we reviewed
the Rison v 1600 AF so what comically it
seems like the retailers have caught
wind of this too
because if you look on Amazon or new AG
now they have in many of the listings
officially renamed its horizon 5 1600
1/2 which is actually the product name
so that's awesome
the community has affected change in the
world in a very meaningful way but
moving forward the 3 1200 and the rise
in 3 1300 X which many of you have
likely forgotten because they didn't
revive those lines for the 2000 series
other than I was ap is there supposed to
likely be moving from the Global
Foundries 14 nanometer
node to the 12 nanometer 12 LP node that
was used for there are 560 hundred AF
the reason this was made for the 1600 at
least and probably the same for the
risin three chips is because the Global
Foundries supply of silicon at 40
nanometers has dried up at this point
and AMD has probably completed its
contracts there so they have to source
the wafer supply elsewhere and they've
decided to do that with the better of
the architecture is the better of the
processes and also keep roughly the same
name and that's something we talked
about in the previous review in addition
to an iterative node shrink the AF part
will also move the rise in 3 1200 likely
to as n+ architecture we need to verify
that once we get one that'll be an
optimization over the vanilla Zen the
benefits of Zen plus are primarily an
IPC improvements there are also
tremendous memory support improvements
there are significant BIOS improvements
in later motherboards that would be
compatible with that part as well and
improved cache and memory latency
improved ddr4 memory controller there
are a lot of improvements here moving
from 1000 series to 2000 series but
keeping the 1000 series name assuming
the listing prices that we've seen pop
up in Europe are correct it looks like
the one of the German retailers had it
listed at 54 70 3 euros about 60 bucks
and if that listing is correct then Andy
is keeping the configuration the same as
the original Rison 3 1200 nan AF meaning
no change in clock speeds or reported
TDP or anything like that but we'll see
we should have one on the way Rison 5
1600 AF included the smaller rate south
cooler and we would assume the same to
be true for the horizon 3 1200 AF
especially as the original risin 3 1200
shipped with the Wraith stealth cooler
anyway speaking of we did really like
the r5 600 AF if that isn't clear it was
an extremely an insane value part at $85
and it lately it's been back to about
that price after a brief spike will link
it in the description below in case you
want to pick one up or watch our
original review of it layoffs hit the
Tor project in our next news story as
the current global situation continues
to play out many organizations and
companies are tightening the belt small
businesses and nonprofits have become
particularly vulnerable ones just like
the Tor project for those unfamiliar
with the Tor project it's responsible
for pioneering Onion Routing through a
decentralized network of servers and
multiple layers of encryption tors
flagship products alongside the Tor
network includes the tor browser some
time ago we put together a guide on
maintaining privacy and that included
the use of the Tor network and tor
browser to make up a significant chunk
of that guide the global issues have
apparently impacted the Tor project
severely as torn outs that it has had to
lay off thirteen staff members and
remember 13 isn't an insignificant
number when the resulting staff consists
of 22 people that's a large chunk of
torez staff over the years the Tor
project has increasingly grown to rely
on donations from the private sector to
fund its work with the global issues
we've changed the name of it this week
bringing nearly every aspect of the
economy to a halt it's hard to imagine
there being enough private donations for
tor to meet its goals despite the
layoffs tor vows to forge ahead and
continue maintaining the Tor network and
making its technology available for all
Unigine the company famous for its
heaven benchmark and less famous for its
valley benchmark has announced that it's
rolling out a free version of the Unison
SDK this is actually pretty interesting
the Unigine 2 community SDK is what's
coming out it's a free SDK or software
development kit that features Unigine
SDK at its core along with support for
C++ Unigine script api's and c-sharp or
as our friend in the industry Jim
Vincent calls it C pound because the
professors will pound it into your head
as a real-time 3d engine Unigine has
been used for games but hasn't gained
the traction that say unity has as an
engine neither of them come anywhere
close to Unreal Engine these days in
terms of popularity especially Unigine
is opening up its platform to the public
though so we'll see if that could change
the Unity engine is far more prolific in
the arena's of visualization and
simulation of course engine is also the
foundation for a slew of benchmarks that
we all know again Heaven Valley and most
recently superposition the Unigine 2
community SDK is free of charge and free
of royalties assuming one thing
individuals
or Studios using the SDK commercially
must not exceed revenue or project
funding of $100,000 per year Unigine
community will be developed in parallel
with the commercial editions engine to
engineering and the engine to sim and
adhere to the same quarterly update
cadence tsmc reported its earnings for
the first quarter of 2020 which ended in
March the world's largest contracts chip
maker which has exploded in usage and
utilization the last couple of years
closed quarter one with a net profit of
three point eight nine billion dollars
and with a revenue a quarterly revenue
of ten point three one billion dollars
that's a ninety percent increase
year-over-year for tsmc and it marks a
ten-year quarterly profit growth so TSMC
most of you likely know but customers
include Nvidia and the Apple and mobile
chip makers so although the human
malware situation has been disruptive to
everybody including tsmc a ninety
percent year-over-year growth is looking
pretty good
that said human malware is impact has
been disruptive to TSM cease operations
it caused the foundry to be a little
more conservative with its full-year
outlook see SMC expects revenue growth
to reach a mid to high-teens percentage
for the whole year of 2020 this is
compared to TSM see his previous revenue
growth forecast of around 20 percent if
you're wondering what's causing this
huge growth for TSM see aside from
everybody using it the main driver for
TSM see according to its financial
statements was anything in 16 nanometers
and below which it classifies as an
advanced process technology these are
have been key drivers for the company's
growth that coupled with the continued
ramp for 5g and for HPC demand has
driven the company up TSM sees advanced
technologies accounted for 55% of its
wafer revenue in quarter one and notably
7 nanometre made up a significant
portion of that at 35 percent in terms
of revenue by node TSM season 7 is its
leading revenue maker for a given node
right now TSM C notes that it's n7 node
is in its third year of ramp while it's
n7 plus is in its second year and 7
possible BTS MCS first node to deploy EU
v4 for critical layers and seven-plus
will also lay the groundwork for TS MCS
iterative and sixth node which is
completely IP compatible with n7 + n7 +
+ 6 will increase the EU V layer count
by 1 + is already in risk production
TSMC expects to enter volume production
with n6 by the end of this year beyond
n6 there's also n5 which is a full node
evolution from n7 and which will extend
the use of UV or extreme ultraviolet
lithography and as a quick shout we have
a video on EU v on the channel where we
spoke with David Cantor on Intel 10
nanometer but also EU V Tech and 5
entered risk production last year and
tsmc has confirmed that n5 is already in
volume production in healthy yields and
5 is expected to deliver a rough 1.8
times increase in density as well as a
15 percent performance uplift or speed
at ISO power vs. and 7 alternatively n5
could deliver a 30% reduction in power
at ISO speed compared to n7 TSMC also
states it expects a quote very fast and
smooth ramp of n5 in the second half of
this year driven by both mobile and HPC
applications that timeline coincides
with persistent reports that Apple will
be among TS MCS first customers to adopt
its 5 nanometer chips in the form of the
a14 Bionic SOC powering apples 20/20
phones TSM see also finally had a bit
more to say about its n3 note saying
that n3 is on track for wrist production
in 2021 and targeting volume production
in 2022 tsmc has opted to remain on
FinFET for n3 due to its maturity and
costs and n3 is expected to deliver
around a 70 percent gain in density
compared to n5 following up to last week
Andy has indeed unveiled its rise in 330
130 100 X CPUs big surprise along with
the B 550 chipset for socket and for
finally been talking about this for long
enough now Andy has continually delayed
be 550 motherboard manufacturers have at
this point probably almost quarterly
received new dates for B 550 and it's
been perpetually pushed back but it is
coming out finally these rise in three
parts are
not to be confused just to make sure we
understand now
with Zen three or with Rison 3000 alone
they are rising 3,000 parts but when
people say rising three at least us here
that must be specified further risin
three is supposed to just me in our
three as in the what started as the
lower and quad cores for the rise 1000
cps and then was discontinued and the
rise in two thousand line only brought
back as a PS until just recently over
the course of three generations which
with Zen which is counted as Zen one
cent plus and Zen - and he has found
itself firmly in the premium CPU vendor
position now rise in 3000 launched with
the high-end SKUs and he did not offer
his end to skew with anything fewer than
six cores and a price tag of two hundred
dollars at launch and thanks to Andy
Intel's product stack looks completely
different these days counter Lake s the
i3 SKUs are essentially becoming the i7
chips of your Intel has moved the i3
brand from dual core 2 quad core and is
all but certain to extend hyper
threading to them as well this would
leave Andy vulnerable at the low end and
we're assuming Andy realized this thus
we have the Rison 330 130 100x coming
out and the promise is that its rise in
three parts although not the surprise
that company would promised us about its
product but will be aggressive both in
performance and in price we will be
independently verifying the claims and
benchmark unit and our updated CPU
testing suite which you'll see a video
on soon the position in here and he has
indisputably led the charge for
competing on price over the last couple
of years and that strategy has worked
off especially with the multiple chip
led approach in terms of performance we
need to see how it does in testing we'll
let you know
Intel has historically enjoyed an
advantage in gaming performance and
that's been slowly whittled down to
mostly the extreme high-end where at
some level with the mid-range and lower
end chips it starts becoming
questionable how the frame time
consistency is maintained in certain
games where it might be an i3 i5 might
be ahead on average it can fall behind
in significant ways and games that are
taxing of thread count so Rison three
the thirty one hundred and thirty one
hundred acts it looks like Andy is
setting the stage for enough
price war the horizon 330 100 is
supposed to be priced at $100 and the
3100 X should be 120 both chips will be
Zen - at their core and will leverage
SMT which is a first for our three chips
support is supposed to be for ddr4 3200
standard right now it comes fully
unlocked it's got support for PCIe gen
for how much that matters well for most
people almost not at all but anyway you
cut it Intel's looming I three chips
won't have it easy against rise and
three
lastly Andy is finally rolling out the
budget oriented be 550 chipset for its
motherboards noting that it has over 60
designs and development with motherboard
partners and these be 550 will bring
PCIe gen 4 to a broader user base and
should be less price prohibitive than X
570 which we have a lot of videos on it
but you don't really need an x5 70
motherboard in most instances you go x4
70 or B 450 and be perfectly fine that
said the x5 70 boards have gotten really
good and they're really starting to take
that Intel approach of really pricing up
the high end of them the rise in 330 130
100 acts are expected to be available
May 21st of 2020 obviously and the b-52
the board should arrive from AMD as
partners June 16th of this year
Seagate and Western Digital acknowledge
SM our concerns and a quick update to
last week's SMR story both Western
Digital and Seagate have responded
publicly Western Digital initially
defended its position on SMR mentioning
that it doesn't always discuss quote
what's under the hood like drive managed
SM our DMSO r and host managed sm are
preferring to instead default to a
specific use case discussion it
seemingly walks those comments back a
bit with a decidedly more humble tone
Western Digital went on to disclose all
of its client hard drives that use any
form of SM are these include drives in
WD red red pro blue black and purple WD
went on to state that it would update
its marketing materials as well add
information about SMR and include
benchmarks and ideal use cases that's an
awfully big change from we don't really
disclose it and it depends on the use
case it it certainly sounds like
that might be in fear of a class-action
lawsuit just a lot of expert here but
that's normally what happens in these
instances Seagate gave comments to Ars
Technica about the matter as well and
this was regarding the use of SMR and
some of its hard drives quote Seagate
confirms that we do not utilize shingled
magnetic recording technology in any
iron wall for iron wolf pro drives
purpose-built for NASA solutions Seagate
always recommends to use the right drive
for the right application Seagate was
less forthright about its use of SMR in
client desktop drives though Seagate
seems to maintain that SMR is
appropriate for consumer drives and
while Seagate's exos and archive hard
drives are identified as easy
SMR it still seems content to market its
barracuda drives with undocumented SMR
use additionally gamers nexus has
reached out to Toshiba for clarification
of its use or disclosure of SMR we at
the time of filming have not heard back
this is a few days later now if we
receive comment from Toshiba we'll
include it in next week's Hardware news
episode LGA 1,200 should retain LGA 1150
xcolor compatibility which is great news
for anyone who likes to make use of
large tower coolers even like this one
for many years so last December a
drawing surfaced of LG a 1200 socket
this is what's supposed to be on z4 90
motherboards it's got 49 more pins then
1151 that's how the naming works and the
drawing indicated although it was
speculation at the time that the
compatibility with coolers would be the
same that's now been confirmed at this
point the confirmation comes from Noctua
who posted the following quote on its
product pages
it said the heatsink mounting on Intel's
new LGA 1200 platform codename comet
Lake s is identical to all LGA 1150 a
it's 1150 1151 1155 and 11:56 therefore
all knocked with CPU coolers that
support LGA 1150 LGA 1200 and don't
require mounting updates just from a
cost control and economic standpoint
this is obviously always good news is
why we also like seeing am 4 roll
forward as far as is feasible and in the
very least the mounting holes were m4 we
would like to see roll forward with a m5
eventually it'll change but keep
the same mounting holes and retention
system is key to reducing user cost on
something that it's a big piece of metal
it doesn't really go bad so rolling it
forward makes a lot of sense it's also
good from an e-waste management
perspective where you're talking about
potentially a two pound brick of copper
and aluminum and to basically throw it
away or recycle it just because it
doesn't fit anymore it seems kind of
stupid when the whole point is to sink
Heat so this is good and we like to see
this senior supercomputer hit with a
hidden crypto mining process someone
finally did it we would love to know how
much they made on it but Ian received a
tip from a viewer who goes by dr. goose
presumably dr. goose is friends with our
other informant doctor oh sorry mr.
Fahrenheit he hasn't earned his PhD yet
he's he'll presumably become dr. Celsius
later on either way
dr. goose whom we think is a PhD and
waterfowl and avian species tipped us
off about cedar a petaflop scale
computer supercomputer that resides in
Simon Fraser in University in Canada
cedar was taken offline due to some
security mishaps an investigation was
launched by compute Canada who deploy
and maintain many of Canada's academic
supercomputers after reports that cedar
was performing unusually slow the team
investigating including members from
both compute Canada Federation and Simon
Fraser University found that there were
hidden processes running between
midnight and 6:00 a.m. Pacific time that
were leading to significant system load
upon discovery cedar was taken offline
from Wednesday April 15th to midnight on
Sunday April 19th while offline cedar
was technically still running and
queueing jobs the investigation
uncovered a cleverly hidden
cryptocurrency mining process that was
running from 12:00 to 6:00 a.m. daily
the process poached idle compute cycles
and it's believed by the team at the
mining process was injected into cedar
through a compromised user account and
user key the information that we
received from dr. goose also indicated
that the standard monitoring tools on
cedar were unable to detect the issue it
was obscured from them
and that's because it would
automatically remove evidence of daily
activities at 6:00 a.m. Pacific time
therefore the executable was not seen in
the file system and compute Canada notes
that there was no instance of personal
or private data being compromised
so thanks to dr. goose for sending that
in if you would like to send in similar
news tips to us or if you have any
information for which you need to be
protected we do protect our sources you
can email that stuff to tips at gamers
Nexus dotnet finally r-tx voice and some
hardware sales information just quickly
here are ITX voice came out it's
interesting we ran benchmarks on it you
can find it on the channel from a usage
standpoint it seems to mostly work there
were instances where with a decent
amount of fan noise a reasonable amount
for a high end machine with maybe let's
say 360 rad and probably a 20 inch
distance about maybe 45 50 DBA of noise
given that scenario it worked pretty
well but in some instances we had
problems where the voice would just cut
out when it really shouldn't be and this
is pretty common for any kind of noise
reduction software so it still has some
of the robotic tin to it as well when
it's first kicking in and evaluating the
voice but overall works decently for an
early beta and we have benchmarks not if
you're curious about the performance and
that's on the channel finally hardware
sales there's a risin 7 3800 X which we
don't particularly recommend in most
cases but the price has dropped so the
3800 ax is 340 bucks on Newegg right now
for a Mother's Day sale and I guess I
take advantage of whatever you can and
the $340 price point is much more
reasonable than its original launch
price the original $100 gap between the
37 and 3800 acts was stupid and it was
obviously product segmentation just to
try and get some more money there might
be some slightly better binning but it's
also largely irrelevant for most of the
user base and I think that'll cap us for
this week so thanks for watching
subscribe for more go destroy dock
cameras X's on net or patreon.com slash
gamers X's tops out directly and we'll
see you all next time
[Music]